README.md, before:

# ticket.sh - Git-Based Ticket Management System

A lightweight, robust ticket management system that uses Git branches and markdown files. Perfect for solo developers, small teams, and AI pair programming.

## Key Features
- 🎯 **Simple workflow**: Create, start, work, close
- 📝 **Markdown tickets**: Rich formatting with YAML frontmatter
- 🌿 **Git integration**: Automatic branch management per ticket
- 📁 **Smart organization**: Auto-organized done folder, timezone-aware timestamps
- 🔧 **Zero dependencies**: Pure Bash + Git, works everywhere
- 🚀 **AI-friendly**: Designed for seamless AI assistant collaboration
- 🛡️ **Robust**: UTF-8 support, error recovery, conflict resolution

**Language versions**: [English](README.md) | [日本語](README.ja.md)

## Quick Start

```bash
# Download pre-built script
curl -O https://raw.githubusercontent.com/masuidrive/ticket.sh/main/ticket.sh
chmod +x ticket.sh

# Initialize in your project
./ticket.sh init

# Create a ticket
./ticket.sh new implement-auth

# Start working
./ticket.sh start 241229-123456-implement-auth

# Complete work
./ticket.sh close
```

## Installation

### Option 1: Download
```bash
curl -O https://raw.githubusercontent.com/masuidrive/ticket.sh/main/ticket.sh
chmod +x ticket.sh
```

### Option 2: Build from Source
```bash
git clone https://github.com/masuidrive/ticket.sh.git
cd ticket.sh
bash ./build.sh
cp ticket.sh /usr/local/bin/
```

## Basic Usage

1. **Initialize**: `./ticket.sh init`
2. **Create ticket**: `./ticket.sh new feature-name`
3. **Start work**: `./ticket.sh start <ticket-name>`
4. **Close ticket**: `./ticket.sh close`

## Usage Examples

### Basic Workflow
```bash
# Check current state
./ticket.sh check

# List tickets by status  
./ticket.sh list --status todo
./ticket.sh list --status done --count 5

# Force close without prompts
./ticket.sh close --force

# Update to latest version
./ticket.sh selfupdate
```

### Working with Done Tickets
```bash
# View recent completions (sorted newest first)
./ticket.sh list --status done

# Restore a completed ticket for reference
./ticket.sh restore 241229-123456-old-feature
```

## Commands

### Core Commands
- `init` - Initialize ticket system (idempotent, safe to re-run)
- `new <slug>` - Create new ticket
- `list [--status todo|doing|done] [--count N]` - List tickets
- `start <ticket> [--no-push]` - Start working on ticket
- `close [--no-push] [--force] [--no-delete-remote]` - Complete ticket
- `restore` - Restore current-ticket.md symlink

### Utility Commands
- `check` - Diagnose current state and provide guidance
- `version` / `--version` - Show version information
- `selfupdate` - Update to latest release from GitHub

### List Command Features
- **Status filtering**: `--status todo|doing|done` to filter by ticket status
- **Count limiting**: `--count N` to limit number of results displayed
- **Done tickets**: Sorted by completion date (newest first)
- **Timezone display**: Completion times shown in local timezone
- **Done folder**: Completed tickets automatically organized in `tickets/done/`

## Configuration

Edit `.ticket-config.yaml`:

```yaml
tickets_dir: "tickets"
default_branch: "develop"
branch_prefix: "feature/"
auto_push: true

# Remote branch cleanup settings
# When enabled, automatically deletes the remote feature branch after closing a ticket.
# This prevents GitHub's "Compare & pull request" banner from appearing for already-merged branches.
# Set to false if you want to keep remote branches for historical reference.
delete_remote_on_close: true  # Default: true

# Success messages
start_success_message: |
  Please review the ticket content in `current-ticket.md` and make any
  necessary adjustments before beginning work.

close_success_message: |
  # Empty by default
```

## Advanced Features

### Smart Branch Handling
- **Existing branches**: Automatically checkout and restore instead of failing
- **Clean branches**: Create new branches from default branch when no changes exist
- **Conflict detection**: Provides guidance for handling merge conflicts during close

### Automatic Organization
- **Done folder**: Completed tickets moved to `tickets/done/` automatically
- **Remote cleanup**: Optional automatic deletion of remote feature branches
- **Git history**: Prevents accidental commits of `current-ticket.md`

### Error Recovery
- **Check command**: Diagnose issues and get guidance on next steps
- **Restore command**: Rebuild symlinks and recover from interrupted operations  
- **Conflict resolution**: Resume operations after resolving merge conflicts

### Robustness Features
- **UTF-8 support**: Full Unicode support for all content and filenames
- **Permission resilience**: Graceful handling of file system permission issues
- **Network tolerance**: Operations continue locally even if remote push fails
- **Cross-platform**: Works on macOS, Linux, and other Unix-like systems

## Requirements

- Bash 3.2+
- Git
- Basic Unix tools

## For Developers

See [DEV.md](DEV.md) for:
- Architecture details
- Building from source
- Testing instructions
- Contributing guidelines

## License

MIT License - see LICENSE file

Commit message:

[250711-064453-add-coding-agent-readme-section] Add dedicated section for coding agents in README explaining ticket.sh integration
---
priority: 2
tags: [documentation, readme, ai]
description: "Add dedicated section for coding agents in README explaining ticket.sh integration"
created_at: "2025-07-11T06:44:53Z"
started_at: 2025-07-11T06:46:27Z # Do not modify manually
closed_at: 2025-07-11T06:57:07Z # Do not modify manually
---

# Add Coding Agent Documentation to README

## Overview

Create a dedicated section in README files explaining how coding agents (like Claude Code, Cursor, etc.) can effectively use ticket.sh for project management. This section should provide clear instructions and best practices for AI assistants working with the ticket system.

## Tasks

- [x] Add "For Coding Agents" section to README.md
- [x] Add "For Coding Agents" section to README.ja.md
- [x] Include ticket workflow examples for AI assistants
- [x] Document best practices for ticket creation and management
- [x] Add examples of how to integrate with existing development workflows
- [x] Run tests before closing and pass all tests (No exceptions)
- [x] Run `bash build.sh` to build the project
- [x] Update documentation if necessary
  - [x] Update README.*.md
  - [ ] Update spec.*.md
  - [ ] Update DEV.md
- [ ] Get developer approval before closing

## Notes

This documentation should help coding agents understand:
- How to create meaningful tickets for user requests
- Best practices for ticket workflow management
- Integration with existing development processes
- Examples of effective ticket usage patterns

Target audience: AI coding assistants, developers using AI tools, and teams integrating AI into their workflow.

README.md, after:

# ticket.sh - Git-Based Ticket Management System

A lightweight, robust ticket management system that uses Git branches and markdown files. Perfect for solo developers, small teams, and AI pair programming.

## Key Features
- 🎯 **Simple workflow**: Create, start, work, close
- 📝 **Markdown tickets**: Rich formatting with YAML frontmatter
- 🌿 **Git integration**: Automatic branch management per ticket
- 📁 **Smart organization**: Auto-organized done folder, timezone-aware timestamps
- 🔧 **Zero dependencies**: Pure Bash + Git, works everywhere
- 🚀 **AI-friendly**: Designed for seamless AI assistant collaboration
- 🛡️ **Robust**: UTF-8 support, error recovery, conflict resolution

**Language versions**: [English](README.md) | [日本語](README.ja.md)

## Quick Start

### Download
```bash
curl -O https://raw.githubusercontent.com/masuidrive/ticket.sh/main/ticket.sh
chmod +x ticket.sh
```

### For Coding Agents

With coding agents like Claude Code or Gemini CLI, you can operate with conversations like these:

```
Run `./ticket.sh init` to install ticket management
Add custom prompts to CLAUDE.md
```

```
Create a ticket for implementing authentication system
```

```
Start working on that ticket
```

```
Close the ticket
```

```
What tickets are remaining?
```

### CLI Usage
```bash
# Initialize in your project
./ticket.sh init

# Create a ticket
./ticket.sh new implement-auth

# Start working
./ticket.sh start 241229-123456-implement-auth

# Complete work
./ticket.sh close
```

## Installation

### Option 1: Download
```bash
curl -O https://raw.githubusercontent.com/masuidrive/ticket.sh/main/ticket.sh
chmod +x ticket.sh
```

### Option 2: Build from Source
```bash
git clone https://github.com/masuidrive/ticket.sh.git
cd ticket.sh
bash ./build.sh
cp ticket.sh /usr/local/bin/
```

## Basic Usage

1. **Initialize**: `./ticket.sh init`
2. **Create ticket**: `./ticket.sh new feature-name`
3. **Start work**: `./ticket.sh start <ticket-name>`
4. **Close ticket**: `./ticket.sh close`

## Usage Examples

### Basic Workflow
```bash
# Check current state
./ticket.sh check

# List tickets by status  
./ticket.sh list --status todo
./ticket.sh list --status done --count 5

# Force close without prompts
./ticket.sh close --force

# Update to latest version
./ticket.sh selfupdate
```

### Working with Done Tickets
```bash
# View recent completions (sorted newest first)
./ticket.sh list --status done

# Restore a completed ticket for reference
./ticket.sh restore 241229-123456-old-feature
```

## Commands

### Core Commands
- `init` - Initialize ticket system (idempotent, safe to re-run)
- `new <slug>` - Create new ticket
- `list [--status todo|doing|done] [--count N]` - List tickets
- `start <ticket> [--no-push]` - Start working on ticket
- `close [--no-push] [--force] [--no-delete-remote]` - Complete ticket
- `restore` - Restore current-ticket.md symlink

### Utility Commands
- `check` - Diagnose current state and provide guidance
- `version` / `--version` - Show version information
- `selfupdate` - Update to latest release from GitHub

### List Command Features
- **Status filtering**: `--status todo|doing|done` to filter by ticket status
- **Count limiting**: `--count N` to limit number of results displayed
- **Done tickets**: Sorted by completion date (newest first)
- **Timezone display**: Completion times shown in local timezone
- **Done folder**: Completed tickets automatically organized in `tickets/done/`

## Configuration

Edit `.ticket-config.yaml`:

```yaml
tickets_dir: "tickets"
default_branch: "develop"
branch_prefix: "feature/"
auto_push: true

# Remote branch cleanup settings
# When enabled, automatically deletes the remote feature branch after closing a ticket.
# This prevents GitHub's "Compare & pull request" banner from appearing for already-merged branches.
# Set to false if you want to keep remote branches for historical reference.
delete_remote_on_close: true  # Default: true

# Success messages
start_success_message: |
  Please review the ticket content in `current-ticket.md` and make any
  necessary adjustments before beginning work.

close_success_message: |
  # Empty by default
```

## Advanced Features

### Smart Branch Handling
- **Existing branches**: Automatically checkout and restore instead of failing
- **Clean branches**: Create new branches from default branch when no changes exist
- **Conflict detection**: Provides guidance for handling merge conflicts during close

### Automatic Organization
- **Done folder**: Completed tickets moved to `tickets/done/` automatically
- **Remote cleanup**: Optional automatic deletion of remote feature branches
- **Git history**: Prevents accidental commits of `current-ticket.md`

### Error Recovery
- **Check command**: Diagnose issues and get guidance on next steps
- **Restore command**: Rebuild symlinks and recover from interrupted operations  
- **Conflict resolution**: Resume operations after resolving merge conflicts

### Robustness Features
- **UTF-8 support**: Full Unicode support for all content and filenames
- **Permission resilience**: Graceful handling of file system permission issues
- **Network tolerance**: Operations continue locally even if remote push fails
- **Cross-platform**: Works on macOS, Linux, and other Unix-like systems

## Requirements

- Bash 3.2+
- Git
- Basic Unix tools

## For Developers

See [DEV.md](DEV.md) for:
- Architecture details
- Building from source
- Testing instructions
- Contributing guidelines

## License

MIT License - see LICENSE file
